.. _cert_command:

############
Cert Command
############

The ``nvflare cert`` command family manages certificate material for
distributed provisioning. It is used by both requesters and the Project Admin.

The public subcommands are:

.. code-block:: none

   usage: nvflare cert [-h] {init,request,approve} ...

   positional arguments:
     {init,request,approve}
       init                Initialize root CA for a distributed provisioning
                           federation (Project Admin only).
       request             Create a distributed provisioning request zip.
       approve             Approve a distributed provisioning request zip.

**********************
Initialize the Root CA
**********************

The Project Admin first creates a **project profile** file. This file can be
stored anywhere on the Project Admin's machine — there is no required location.
The path is passed explicitly to every ``cert init`` and ``cert approve``
command; NVFlare never searches for it automatically.

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: hospital_federation
   scheme: grpc
   connection_security: tls
   server:
     host: server1.hospital-central.org
     fed_learn_port: 8002
     admin_port: 8003  # optional; defaults to fed_learn_port if omitted

The profile captures three things the Project Admin owns:

- **name**: the project name; every participant definition must use this
  exact string.
- **scheme** and **connection_security**: transport settings (``grpc`` /
  ``tls`` are the defaults).
- **server**: the server endpoint that clients and users will connect to.
  ``cert approve`` reads this and embeds it in every signed zip so requesters
  do not have to supply it themselves.

The Project Admin then runs ``cert init`` once per federation:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert init --profile project_profile.yaml -o ./ca --version 00

This creates:

- ``./ca/rootCA.pem``: root CA certificate
- ``./ca/rootCA.key``: root CA private key; keep this secret
- ``./ca/ca.json``: internal CA metadata generated by
  ``nvflare cert init``; stores the project name, ``provision_version``, and
  ``rootCA_fingerprint`` used by ``nvflare cert approve``. Do not edit
  manually.

Common ``init`` options:

- ``--profile``: path to the project profile yaml file. Required. The file is
  read directly from this path — no automatic file discovery occurs.
  ``cert init`` reads only the ``name`` field; ``cert approve`` uses the full
  profile later.
- ``--version``: provision version recorded in ``ca.json`` and signed into
  approved zips. Default: ``00``. ``nvflare package`` writes startup kits to
  ``prod_<provision_version>``.
- ``--org``: optional organization name for the root CA certificate's O field.
- ``-o, --output-dir``: CA output directory. Required.
- ``--valid-days``: root CA validity in days. Default: ``3650``.
- ``--force``: replace existing CA files after backing them up only when using
  a new provision version. Reusing an existing version with a new root CA is
  rejected so startup kits from different CAs are not mixed in the same
  ``prod_<provision_version>`` directory.
- ``--schema``: print JSON schema for this command.

********************
Create a Request Zip
********************

The requester runs ``cert request`` on the machine that should own the private
key. The command reads one participant definition file, creates a private key,
CSR, metadata, and request zip.

Client site request:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert request --participant hospital-a.yaml

Server request:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert request --participant server.yaml

User request:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert request --participant alice.yaml

A participant definition uses the same top-level shape as a centralized
``project.yaml``: a ``name`` field for the project and a ``participants`` list.
For distributed provisioning the ``participants`` list must contain **exactly one
entry** — one file, one identity, one request. The key is plural to stay
consistent with the centralized format, but ``cert request`` will reject the
file if the list has zero or more than one entry.

**Participant definition formats:**

*Server* — includes the server's own listen ports:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: hospital_federation

   participants:
     - name: server.example.com
       type: server
       org: nvidia
       fed_learn_port: 8002
       admin_port: 8003  # optional; defaults to fed_learn_port if omitted

.. note::

   ``fed_learn_port`` and ``admin_port`` are the ports this server *listens on*
   locally. ``admin_port`` is optional and defaults to ``fed_learn_port`` when
   omitted.

   ``nvflare cert approve`` verifies that the ``name`` field in the request zip
   matches the project name in ``ca.json`` and ``project_profile.yaml``. Requests
   with a mismatched project name are rejected.

*Client* — only name, type, and org are required:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: hospital_federation

   participants:
     - name: hospital-a
       type: client
       org: hospital_alpha

*User (FL admin)* — ``type: admin`` identifies an FL admin user (org_admin, lead, or member), not the Project Admin who manages the CA. Add ``role``:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: hospital_federation

   participants:
     - name: alice@hospital.org
       type: admin
       org: hospital_alpha
       role: lead

To request a second participant such as ``hospital-b``, create a separate
``hospital-b.yaml`` file with its own single entry and run ``cert request``
again. Each participant has its own private key and request zip.

.. note::

   **What the requester needs from the Project Admin (out-of-band):**

   - **Project name** (``name:``): every participant definition must use the
     exact project name from the Project Admin's ``project_profile.yaml``.

   Client and user definitions do not include a server endpoint. The Project
   Admin embeds the approved server host, ports, scheme, and connection
   security from ``project_profile.yaml`` into every signed zip during
   ``cert approve``. Requesters receive this information inside the signed zip,
   not by writing it into their own participant definition file.

By default, ``cert request`` writes to ``./<name>/``. For ``hospital-a``:

.. code-block:: text

   hospital-a/
     hospital-a.key
     hospital-a.csr
     site.yaml
     request.json
     hospital-a.request.zip

All files in this directory are generated automatically by ``cert request``.
Do not edit them manually. ``request.json`` records request metadata that
``nvflare package`` uses later to validate the signed zip.

Send only ``hospital-a.request.zip`` to the Project Admin. The private key
remains local and is not included in the zip.

Common ``request`` options:

- ``-p, --participant``: participant definition file. Required.
- ``--out``: request folder. Default: ``./<participant-name>``.
- ``--force``: overwrite existing request files.
- ``--schema``: print JSON schema for this command.

*********************
Approve a Request Zip
*********************

The Project Admin runs ``cert approve`` with the project CA and project
profile:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert approve hospital-a.request.zip --ca-dir ./ca --profile project_profile.yaml

This validates the request zip, verifies that the request project matches the
CA and project profile, signs the CSR, injects the Project Admin-approved
server endpoint from ``project_profile.yaml``, signs CA metadata into
``signed.json``, and creates:

.. code-block:: text

   hospital-a.signed.zip
     signed.json
     signed.json.sig
     site.yaml
     hospital-a.crt
     rootCA.pem

Return the signed zip to the requester.

``signed.json.sig`` is a Project Admin CA signature over ``signed.json``.
``nvflare package`` verifies this signature before trusting the approved
server endpoint, scheme, connection security fields, and ``ca_info``.
``ca_info`` contains the CA ``provision_version`` and ``rootCA_fingerprint``.

The signed zip already includes ``rootCA.pem``. The requester does not need to
receive or place a separate ``rootCA.pem`` file before running
``nvflare package``.

The command output includes ``rootca_fingerprint_sha256``. Share only that
fingerprint value with the requester through a trusted out-of-band channel so
they can verify the signed zip root CA during ``nvflare package``.

Use ``--out`` to choose the signed zip location:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert approve hospital-a.request.zip \
       --ca-dir ./ca \
       --profile project_profile.yaml \
       --out ./signed/hospital-a.signed.zip

Common ``approve`` options:

- ``request_zip``: request zip produced by ``nvflare cert request``. Required.
- ``-c, --ca-dir``: directory containing ``rootCA.pem``, ``rootCA.key``, and
  ``ca.json``. Required.
- ``--profile``: Project Admin's ``project_profile.yaml`` containing
  ``name``, ``scheme``, ``connection_security``, and the ``server`` endpoint.
  Required.
- ``--out``: signed zip output path. Default: ``<name>.signed.zip`` next to the
  request zip.
- ``--valid-days``: participant certificate validity in days. Default:
  ``1095``.
- ``--force``: overwrite existing signed zip.
- ``--schema``: print JSON schema for this command.

****************
End-to-End Flow
****************

Requester:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert request --participant hospital-a.yaml

Project Admin:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare cert init --profile project_profile.yaml -o ./ca --version 00
   nvflare cert approve hospital-a.request.zip --ca-dir ./ca --profile project_profile.yaml

Requester:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare package hospital-a.signed.zip --fingerprint <expected_fingerprint>

For the full workflow, including participant definition examples and artifact
layout, see :ref:`distributed_provisioning`.

.. note::

   **Compatibility:** Request zips produced before this release do not contain
   a ``site_yaml_sha256`` integrity field and will be rejected by
   ``nvflare cert approve``. Regenerate the request zip with
   ``nvflare cert request`` before running approve.
