.. _job_cli:

#########################
NVIDIA FLARE Job CLI
#########################

The ``nvflare job`` command family is used to submit, inspect, monitor, and
manage federated learning jobs from an admin startup kit.

Before using server-connected job commands, either run ``nvflare poc prepare``
or activate a registered startup kit with :ref:`kit_command`:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare config add project_admin /path/to/admin@nvidia.com
   nvflare config use project_admin

***********************
Command Usage
***********************

.. code-block:: none

   nvflare job -h

   usage: nvflare job [-h]  ...

   job subcommands:
     submit          submit job
     wait            wait for a job and return one final JSON envelope
     monitor         wait for a job and stream progress to stderr
     list            list jobs on the server
     abort           abort a running job
     meta            get metadata for a job
     logs            retrieve job logs from the server-side log store
     log-config      change logging configuration for a running job
     stats           show running job statistics
     download        download job result
     clone           clone an existing job
     delete          delete a job
     list_templates  [DEPRECATED] use 'nvflare recipe list'
     create          [DEPRECATED] use 'python job.py --export --export-dir <job_folder>' + 'nvflare job submit -j <job_folder>'
     show_variables  [DEPRECATED] use 'nvflare recipe list' or the Job Recipe API

*****************
Common Workflow
*****************

1. Export or prepare a job folder.
2. Submit the job with ``nvflare job submit -j <job_folder>``.
3. In automation, wait for completion with ``nvflare job wait <job_id>``.
   For interactive progress output, use ``nvflare job monitor <job_id>``.
4. Inspect metadata, stats, or logs as needed.
5. Download, clone, abort, or delete the job when appropriate.

*****************************
Startup Kit Selection
*****************************

Server-connected job commands use this startup kit resolution order:

1. Optional ``--kit-id <id>``: override the active startup kit for this command
   only by using a registered startup-kit ID.
2. Optional ``--startup-kit <path>``: override the active startup kit for this
   command only by using an explicit admin startup-kit directory.
3. ``NVFLARE_STARTUP_KIT_DIR`` when set.
4. ``startup_kits.active`` from ``~/.nvflare/config.conf``.
5. If no source resolves to a valid admin startup kit, the command fails before connecting.

``--kit-id`` and ``--startup-kit`` are not required. When provided, they take
precedence over the active startup kit for the current command only and do not
change the globally active startup kit. They are useful for scripts, notebooks,
and concurrent workflows that must not mutate ``~/.nvflare/config.conf``.

****************
Submit a Job
****************

Use ``nvflare job submit`` to submit a pre-built NVFlare job folder:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/hello-pt

Submit options:

- ``-j, --job_folder``: job folder path. Defaults to ``./current_job``.
- ``--study``: submit into a named study when the server is configured for
  multi-study access. If omitted, the literal study name ``default`` is
  submitted.
- ``--submit-token``: caller-generated token for retry-safe submit and later
  recovery with ``nvflare job list --submit-token``.
- ``-debug, --debug``: keep the temporary copied job folder for inspection.
- ``--schema``: print the command schema as JSON and exit.

Submit returns immediately with a ``job_id``. It does not wait for terminal
job status.

To change job configuration values, edit the exported job files before
submission. Submit-time ``-f/--config_file`` overrides are not supported.

Examples:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare config use project_admin
   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/hello-pt
   nvflare job list --kit-id project_admin
   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/hello-pt --startup-kit /path/to/admin@nvidia.com

Registered startup kit paths must point to the admin startup kit directory
itself, not the broader ``prod_00`` root.

Example JSON success response:

.. code-block:: json

   {"schema_version": "1", "status": "ok", "exit_code": 0, "data": {"job_id": "abc123"}}

If the server is configured for studies, you can target one explicitly:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/my_job --study cancer_research

Retry-Safe Submit Tokens
========================

Use ``--submit-token`` when an automated caller may retry a submit after a
timeout or lost client connection:

.. code-block:: shell

   TOKEN=$(uuidgen)
   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/my_job \
       --study cancer_research \
       --submit-token "$TOKEN" \
       --format json

``--submit-token`` is optional. When provided, it must be generated by the
caller and is used as an idempotency and recovery value for one intended
submit. NVFlare does not auto-generate a submit token when the flag is omitted.
The token is not an authentication token, session token, startup-kit credential,
API key, or certificate secret. Normal startup-kit authentication and
authorization still apply.

Tokens must be non-empty, at most 128 characters, and use only letters,
numbers, ``.``, ``_``, ``:``, or ``-``.

Submit-token scope is the selected server/project context, study, submitter
identity, and token value. Reusing the same token with the same job content in
the same scope returns the existing ``job_id``. Reusing it with different job
content fails with ``SUBMIT_TOKEN_CONFLICT``. The same token may be used in a
different study because studies are separate job namespaces.

If a job created with ``--submit-token`` is later deleted, the server keeps the
submit record as ``job_deleted``. A later submit or list lookup with the same
token returns ``SUBMIT_TOKEN_JOB_DELETED`` instead of silently recreating the
deleted job. Use a new submit token to submit the job again.

The submitted job path should point to the job content root. When the submitted
artifact is a zip file with one wrapper directory around the job content, the
wrapper is ignored for submit-token content hashing so a normal
``zip -r my_job.zip my_job/`` archive matches submitting ``my_job/`` directly.
Submitting the parent directory that contains ``my_job/`` is different content
and may conflict when retried with the same token.

The token is stored only as server-owned submission metadata. It is not written
to the job's ``meta.json``; that file remains job-owned execution metadata such
as ``deploy_map``, ``resource_spec``, ``min_clients``, and launcher settings.
If ``--submit-token`` is omitted, submit behavior is unchanged and each submit
creates a new job as before. The server still records the submitted job through
the normal job store and job history, but no retry-safe submit-token record is
created. The job cannot later be recovered with ``job list --submit-token``
unless the original submit used a caller-provided token.

After a client-side timeout or session loss, recover the accepted job with
``job list --submit-token``:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job list --study cancer_research --submit-token "$TOKEN" --format json

If the recovered job was deleted, JSON output uses the normal error envelope:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "schema_version": "1",
     "status": "error",
     "exit_code": 4,
     "error_code": "SUBMIT_TOKEN_JOB_DELETED",
     "data": {
       "job_id": "abc123",
       "state": "job_deleted",
       "deleted_time": "2026-04-30T10:00:00-07:00"
     }
   }

``--submit-token`` is only for ``job submit`` and ``job list``. To monitor,
download, abort, delete, or clone the recovered job, first resolve the
``job_id`` with ``job list --submit-token`` and then use the normal job command.

***********************
Wait or Monitor a Job
***********************

Use ``nvflare job wait`` when a script or agent needs one final command result
after the job reaches a terminal state:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job wait <job_id>
   nvflare job wait <job_id> --study cancer_research
   nvflare job wait <job_id> --timeout 3600 --interval 5 --format json

``job wait`` accepts:

- ``job_id``: job ID to wait for.
- ``--timeout``: max seconds to wait; must be greater than or equal to ``0``.
  Default: ``0`` (no timeout).
- ``--interval``: poll interval in seconds; must be greater than ``0``.
  Default: ``2``.
- ``--study``: wait for a job in a named study. Use the same study name used at
  submission time. If omitted, the literal study name ``default`` is used.
- ``--schema``: print the command schema as JSON and exit.

Unlike ``job monitor``, ``job wait`` is the single-envelope automation command.
It does not stream progress lines. In JSON mode, stdout contains exactly one
final JSON envelope with the terminal job status and metadata; human-readable
diagnostics still go to stderr.

Exit behavior:

- exit code ``0``: job finished successfully.
- exit code ``1``: job reached a terminal failure state, such as ``FAILED``,
  ``FINISHED_EXCEPTION``, ``ABORTED``, or ``ABANDONED``.
- exit code ``2``: connection, authentication, or authorization failure prevented waiting.
- exit code ``3``: wait timeout.

This enables CI/CD-style chaining without parsing progress output:

.. code-block:: shell

   JOB=$(nvflare job submit -j ./my_job --format json | jq -r .data.job_id)
   nvflare job wait $JOB --format json && nvflare job download $JOB

Use ``nvflare job monitor`` when a human wants progress updates while waiting.
It streams status lines to stderr and returns the final result when the job
reaches a terminal state:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job monitor <job_id>
   nvflare job monitor <job_id> --study cancer_research
   nvflare job monitor <job_id> --timeout 3600 --format jsonl

Monitor options:

- ``job_id``: job ID to monitor.
- ``--timeout``: max seconds to wait; must be greater than or equal to ``0``.
  Default: ``0`` (no timeout).
- ``--interval``: poll interval in seconds; must be greater than ``0``.
  Default: ``2``.
- ``--study``: monitor a job in a named study. Use the same study name used
  at submission time. If omitted, the literal study name ``default`` is used.
- ``--stats-target``: where to fetch stats from. Choices: ``server``, ``client``, ``all``. Default: ``server``.
- ``--metric``: extra metric key to surface from stats. Repeatable.
- ``--schema``: print the command schema as JSON and exit.

``job monitor`` exit behavior matches ``job wait``:

- exit code ``0``: job finished successfully
- exit code ``1``: job reached a terminal failure state: ``FAILED``, ``FINISHED_EXCEPTION``, ``ABORTED``, or ``ABANDONED``
- exit code ``2``: connection, authentication, or authorization failure prevented monitoring
- exit code ``3``: monitor timeout

For automation that needs progress events, use ``--format jsonl``. Each stdout
line is one complete JSON object. Progress events include ``terminal: false``;
the final event always includes ``terminal: true``. Timeout emits a final event
with ``status: "TIMEOUT"`` and exits with code ``3``. Successful terminal job
statuses such as ``FINISHED_OK`` are normalized to ``status: "COMPLETED"`` and
the raw server status is preserved in ``job_status``. Connection,
authentication, and authorization failures emit a terminal error event with
``status: "error"`` and the specific code in ``error_code``.

Example JSONL terminal event:

.. code-block:: json

   {"schema_version":"1","event":"terminal","job_id":"abc123","status":"COMPLETED","job_status":"FINISHED_OK","terminal":true}

*********************
List and Inspect Jobs
*********************

List jobs currently known to the server:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job list

Common list filters:

- ``-n, --name``: filter by job name prefix.
- ``-i, --id``: filter by job ID prefix.
- ``-r, --reverse``: reverse sort order.
- ``-m, --max``: maximum number of results to return.
- ``--study``: list jobs from a named study. If omitted, the literal study name
  ``default`` is used. Values such as ``all`` are passed through to the server
  unchanged.
- ``--submit-token``: find the job associated with a retry-safe submit token in
  the selected study. This is the recovery path after submitting with
  ``--submit-token``.
- ``--schema``: print the command schema as JSON and exit.

Retrieve metadata for a single job:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job meta <job_id>

Use metadata to inspect job identity, lifecycle fields, and server-reported
status information after submission.

``nvflare job meta`` also supports ``--schema``.

******************************
Download, Clone, Abort, Delete
******************************

Download job results:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job download <job_id> -o ./downloads

For automation, use JSON output:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job download <job_id> -o ./downloads --format json

The JSON success response reports local paths on the machine running the CLI:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "schema_version": "1",
     "status": "ok",
     "exit_code": 0,
     "data": {
       "job_id": "abc123",
       "download_path": "/abs/path/downloads/abc123",
       "path": "/abs/path/downloads/abc123",
       "artifact_discovery": "completed",
       "artifacts": {
         "global_model": "/abs/path/downloads/abc123/workspace/FL_global_model.pt",
         "metrics_summary": "/abs/path/downloads/abc123/workspace/metrics_summary.json",
         "client_logs": {
           "site-1": "/abs/path/downloads/abc123/workspace/site-1/log.txt"
         }
       },
       "missing_artifacts": []
     }
   }

``download_path`` is the final local directory returned by the download API.
It may differ from the requested ``--output-dir`` if the transfer layer chooses
a collision-safe destination. ``path`` is a backward-compatible alias for
``download_path`` when present.

``artifacts`` contains local paths discovered under ``download_path``. Agents
and scripts should use ``data.artifacts.*`` as the source of truth for
consumable files instead of assuming a server workspace layout or constructing
paths from ``download_path``. ``missing_artifacts`` lists expected categories,
such as model, metrics, or client logs, that were not found locally. Missing
artifacts do not make the command fail when the download itself succeeds.
When ``artifact_discovery`` is ``skipped``, the CLI did not have a local
directory to inspect, so ``artifacts`` and ``missing_artifacts`` are ``null``
instead of claiming that expected artifacts were verified absent.

The server download protocol is unchanged; artifact discovery is a local CLI
post-processing step after the result has been downloaded.

Clone an existing job:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job clone <job_id>

``nvflare job clone`` clones the full server-side job for reuse. The current
CLI surface takes only the source ``job_id`` and ``--schema``.
It returns ``source_job_id`` and ``new_job_id``. Use the returned
``new_job_id`` to monitor or manage the cloned job.

Abort a running job:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job abort <job_id>
   nvflare job abort <job_id> --force

Delete a job:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job delete <job_id>
   nvflare job delete <job_id> --force

Notes:

- ``abort`` and ``delete`` support ``--force`` to skip the confirmation prompt.
- ``delete --format json`` returns ``job_id`` and
  ``submit_records_marked_deleted``. When this count is nonzero, future use of
  the same submit token returns ``SUBMIT_TOKEN_JOB_DELETED``.
- ``download`` supports ``-o, --output-dir`` to choose the destination
  directory. Default: job-specific directory under the current working
  directory (``./<job_id>``).
- ``clone``, ``download``, ``abort``, and ``delete`` all support ``--schema``.

**************
Observability
**************

Retrieve job logs from the server-side log store:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job logs <job_id>
   nvflare job logs <job_id> --site site-1
   nvflare job logs <job_id> --site all
   nvflare job logs <job_id> --site all --tail 200
   nvflare job logs <job_id> --site site-1 --since 2026-04-28T10:00:00
   nvflare job logs <job_id> --site all --max-bytes 200000

``job logs`` accepts:

- ``--site server``: return the server job log. This is the default.
- ``--site <client_name>``: return that client's job log after it has been
  streamed to and stored by the server.
- ``--site all``: return the server log and all client logs currently available
  in the server-side log store. If a known job site does not have stored log
  content, the JSON response includes it under ``unavailable``.
- ``--sites`` is accepted as an alias for ``--site`` but still selects one
  target value.
- ``--tail N``: return at most the last N log lines per site.
- ``--since timestamp``: return timestamped log lines at or after the timestamp
  when line timestamps are parseable. Continuation lines following an included
  timestamped line are included.
- ``--max-bytes N``: return at most N UTF-8 bytes per site.
- ``job logs`` also supports ``--schema``.

If no explicit bound is provided, ``job logs`` returns at most the last 500
lines per site. JSON output includes ``logs_truncated``, per-site availability
and line/byte counts under ``sites``, and the applied ``filters``.
When any of ``--tail``, ``--since``, or ``--max-bytes`` is provided, the
default 500-line tail is disabled and ``filters.default_tail_applied`` is
``false``. The explicit bounds are applied in this order: ``--since``,
``--tail``, then ``--max-bytes``.

The bound options are applied by the CLI after the server returns the stored
log content. They bound the printed or JSON output from ``nvflare job logs``;
they do not reduce the amount of log content requested from the server. If a
large log is already limited by the server-side maximum response size before it
reaches the CLI, these client-side bounds are applied to that returned content.

In normal human output mode, ``job logs`` prints the log text directly. With
``--site all``, each site is separated by a short header. Use ``--format json``
when a structured ``logs`` dictionary is needed for automation.

``job logs`` does not provide a built-in ``grep`` option. Pipe or post-process
the returned content when text matching is needed.

Client logs are not fetched from client machines at command time. The command
asks the server for logs that were already streamed to the server during the
job. The current implementation reads client logs from the server job
workspace, where streamed client logs are stored as ``<client_name>/log.txt``;
after the job workspace is archived, the same files are read from the stored
job ``workspace`` artifact.

To enable client job log streaming in a portable job, add the job-level log
streamer and receiver components to the job definition:

.. code-block:: python

   from nvflare.app_common.logging.job_log_receiver import JobLogReceiver
   from nvflare.app_common.logging.job_log_streamer import JobLogStreamer

   # Tails each client's job log.txt and streams it to the server.
   recipe.job.to_clients(JobLogStreamer())

   # Receives streamed log chunks on the server and stores them with the job.
   recipe.job.to_server(JobLogReceiver())

System-level logging configuration in ``resources.json.default`` is separate
from this job-level opt-in. Some deployments may configure a server-side
``JobLogReceiver`` globally, but including both components in the job makes the
job self-contained across POC and production deployments.

The ``examples/hello-world/hello-log-streaming`` example shows this pattern.

Change logging configuration for a running job:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job log-config <job_id> DEBUG
   nvflare job log-config <job_id> concise
   nvflare job log-config <job_id> msg_only

``job log-config`` accepts:

- positional ``level``: ``DEBUG``, ``INFO``, ``WARNING``, ``ERROR``, ``CRITICAL``
- log modes: ``concise``, ``msg_only``, ``full``, ``verbose``, ``reload``
- ``--site``: target site name or ``all``. Default: ``all``; specifying
  ``--site all`` explicitly is equivalent to omitting it.
- ``--schema``: print the command schema as JSON and exit

Show running job statistics:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job stats <job_id>

``job stats`` supports ``--site`` to target a specific site or ``all``.
The default is ``all``, so specifying ``--site all`` explicitly is equivalent
to omitting it.
It also supports ``--schema``.

***************************
Recipe-Based Job Creation
***************************

The recommended way to create a new job folder is through the Job Recipe API or
an example ``job.py`` script that supports ``--export``:

.. code-block:: shell

   python job.py --export --export-dir /tmp/nvflare/hello-pt
   nvflare job submit -j /tmp/nvflare/hello-pt

To discover built-in recipes, use:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare recipe list

Deprecated commands:

- ``nvflare job create``: retained for compatibility. Prefer ``python job.py --export`` followed by ``nvflare job submit``.
- ``nvflare job list_templates``: use ``nvflare recipe list``.
- ``nvflare job show_variables``: use the Job Recipe API.

Current deprecation notes:

- ``nvflare job create`` still exposes template- and config-oriented arguments for
  legacy workflows.
- ``nvflare job list_templates`` and ``nvflare job show_variables`` remain
  available for backward compatibility but are not the preferred interfaces for
  recipe discovery or job-variable inspection.

*********************
JSON Output and Help
*********************

Add ``--format json`` anywhere after the subcommand for machine-readable output:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job meta <job_id> --format json

``--format json`` may be placed anywhere in the command after the subcommand
name. stdout contains a single JSON envelope; human-readable progress and
diagnostics go to stderr.

Use ``--schema`` for machine-readable command discovery. ``--schema`` always
returns JSON regardless of ``--format``, so the flag is not needed with it:

.. code-block:: shell

   nvflare job submit --schema
   nvflare job wait --schema
   nvflare job monitor --schema

Human-readable argument errors print command help first, followed by the
specific error and hint. JSON mode prints only the JSON error envelope.
